h2. Change Log

Also see the "release notes of underlying morphia library":http://code.google.com/p/morphia/wiki/ReleaseNotes and the GORM-MongoDB "User Guide":http://jkuehn.github.com/gorm-mongodb/

h3. v0.7.3 - 2011-07-03
* updated morphia library to *1.00-SNAPSHOT* (r1740)
* Added sorting order parameter in MongoDB queries - better gorm compatibility
* *breaking change* static update method now updates all matched entities! There was a bug: instead of updating all matched entities, it updated only the first
* "GPGORMMONGODB-15":http://jira.grails.org/browse/GPGORMMONGODB-15 Added updateFirst operation

h3. v0.7.2 - 2011-03-27
* Fix in Key.fetch(): NullPointerException if Key didn't hold a class reference
* findAll now returns all found entities as documented, not only the first 25

h3. v0.7.1 - 2011-02-28
* Fix in ObjectFactory: inherited classes were not always resolved correctly

h3. v0.7 - 2011-02-27
* an "ObjectFactory":http://morphia.googlecode.com/svn/site/morphia/apidocs/com/google/code/morphia/ObjectFactory.html is used to create domain instances. Now all domain objects are autowired automatically, also those returned by find* and list methods.
* makeKey method is now deprecated, please use createKey instead
* new instance method: createDBRef
* countAll is now deprecated, please use count instead
* added fromDBObject and toDBObject methods
* added fetch() method to com.google.code.morphia.Key class

h3. v0.6.3 - 2011-02-25
* "GRAILSPLUGINS-2902":http://jira.codehaus.org/browse/GRAILSPLUGINS-2902 Embedded Classes should by default not get @Id injected

h3. v0.6.2 - 2011-02-24
* "GRAILSPLUGINS-2895":http://jira.codehaus.org/browse/GRAILSPLUGINS-2895 recursive check of ancestors to support inherited nesting

h3. v0.6.1 - 2011-02-24
* "GRAILSPLUGINS-2895":http://jira.codehaus.org/browse/GRAILSPLUGINS-2895
** Subclasses don't get the id injected automatically anymore - if the superclass is also managed by the plugin
** You can control the autoinjection process by using the grails.plugins.mongodb.ast.TransformationConfiguration annotation

h3. v0.6 - 2011-02-19
* *PLUGIN RENAMED*: now you will find this plugin as 'mongodb-morphia' in the grails repository
* *breaking change* findByX is no longer synonym for findAllByX, but for findOneByX. So findByX now returns only the first result, and is consistent with find() and findAll() methods.
* support for replica sets
* implemented the beforeValidate event introduced in "grails 1.3.6":http://grails.org/1.3.6+Release+Notes
* updated morphia library to *0.99*

h3. v0.5.4 - 2010-12-10
* support for getAll method
* support for countAll method
* updated morphia library to *0.98*

h3. v0.5.3 - 2010-11-30
* updated morphia library to *0.97*

h3. v0.5.2 - 2010-11-26
* updated morphia library to *0.96*
* added static collection property to access the unterlying mongodb collection
* added addTo* methods support
* by default the classname is not stored for every document anymore. Add annotation @com.google.code.morphia.annotations.Entity(noClassnameStored=false) to enable manually

h3. v0.5.1 - 2010-10-03
* added static update method

h3. v0.5 - 2010-09-15
* Maven is now used to resolve MongoDB driver and morphia dependency
* updated morphia library to *0.95*
** ObjectId is now default id type
** update method uses UpdateOperation now - *breaking change!* - see user guide
* using MongoDB java driver *2.1*
* redefined and extended index mapping

h3. v0.4.3 - 2010-08-26
* Fixes "GRAILSPLUGINS-2405":http://jira.codehaus.org/browse/GRAILSPLUGINS-2405 - Pagination parameters falsely removed

h3. v0.4.2 - 2010-08-20
* Fixes "GRAILSPLUGINS-2399":http://jira.codehaus.org/browse/GRAILSPLUGINS-2399 - Better error handling in case config is missing
* Fixes "GRAILSPLUGINS-2398":http://jira.codehaus.org/browse/GRAILSPLUGINS-2398 - Documentation fixes

h3. v0.4.1 - 2010-08-13
* automatically injected version property now marked transient (it is automatically injected to work with scaffolding)

h3. v0.4 - 2010-08-12
* switched to global AST transformations, so no more annotations for mongo domains needed, *MongoEntity deprecated*
* updated to grails 1.3.4
* mongo artefacts are of type "MongoDomain" again. Plugin works with hibernate again
* updated petclinic

h3. v0.3.2 - 2010-07-20
* updated morphia library to *0.94*
* added support for index mapping

h3. v0.3 - 2010-07-04
* added update method
* updated morphia to latest snapshot (revision 600)
* tested with Grails 1.3.2
* added code-coverage plugin (code not fully covered yet)

h3. v0.2.1 - 2010-06-17
* cleaned up code, small fixes
* Mongo domains are now registered as "Domain" artefacts only
* Tested with hibernate: gorm-mongodb is not working with hibernate plugin
* Updated petclinic sample application

h3. v0.2 - 2010-06-15
* added ast transformations to mongo entities. id, version and needed annotations are injected automatically
* mongo entities now have to be annotated with grails.plugins.mongodb.MongoEntity
* updated morphia and mongodb-java-driver libraries. morphia now supports lazy referencing via @Reference(lazy=true)
* MongoDB 1.5 support
* generate-all now works with MongoEntity classes

h3. v0.1.2 - 2010-06-08
* added a mongo bean to access the preconfigured driver and mapper

h3. v0.1.1 - 2010-06-07
* renamed static delete method to deleteAll in order to avoid "conflicts":http://jira.codehaus.org/browse/GROOVY-4239
* plugin published to the grails plugin repository
* added user guide

h3. v0.1 - 2010-06-05
* initial release
